OBSDOCS-551: overview docs for tech preview of cluster observability operator (#66128)
openshift/openshift-docs: monitoring/cluster_observability_operator/cluster-observability-operator-overview.adoc

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="cluster-observability-operator-overview"]
= Cluster Observability Operator overview
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: cluster_observability_operator_overview

toc::[]

:FeatureName: Using the Cluster Observability Operator
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

> The Cluster Observability Operator (COO) is an optional component of the {product-title}. You can deploy it to create standalone monitoring stacks that are independently configurable for use by different services and users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cluster Observability Operator (COO) is an optional component of {product-title}. You can deploy it to create stand-alone monitoring stacks that are independently configurable for use by different services and users.
```
Per IBM SG re: "stand-alone"

Author: Thanks, Alex. Per our SSG, RH docs use "standalone": https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#standalone, so leaving as-is.

The COO deploys the following monitoring components:

* Prometheus

> * Thanos Querier

Reviewer 2: Thanos Querier is optional also, if you want to deploy it, you will have to create  CR 'Thanos Querier'

Author: fixed

* Alertmanager (optional)

The COO components function independently of the default in-cluster monitoring stack, which is deployed and managed by the Cluster Monitoring Operator (CMO).
Monitoring stacks deployed by the two Operators do not conflict. You can use a COO monitoring stack in addition to the default platform monitoring components deployed by the CMO.

include::modules/monitoring-understanding-the-cluster-observability-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

> * link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/server-side-apply/[Kubernetes documentation for Server-side apply (SSA)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/server-side-apply/[Kubernetes documentation for Server-Side Apply (SSA)]
```

Author: Fixed.
